# Project: Data Science

This repository is designed as a starting point for data science projects, providing a structured project for data analysis and modeling.

## Overview

A data science project typically involves several key steps, consequently were created the following resources:

- **Notebook**: To develop and test your ideas, data scientists typically use _Jupyter Notebooks_. Create and implement your notebooks within the `notebook` directory. A starter file named `__main__.ipynb` is provided in that folder to help you get started.
- **Data**: All datasets should be stored in the `data` directory. To get started, was provided a sample dataset `meteorite_landings.csv` located in this folder. That dataset was loaded by the code within the _Dataset_ section of the `__main__.ipynb` notebook.
- **Libraries**: Any custom libraries or modules you create should be placed in the `notebook/lib` directory. A sample library named `data_profiling.py` is provided to demonstrate how to create reusable code for notebooks.
- **Results**: The results of your analysis should be stored in the `results` directory. This can include visualizations, reports, or any other output generated by your notebooks.
- **Requirements**: Any additional Python packages required for your project should be listed in the `requirements.txt` file. This allows for easy installation of dependencies using `pip`.
- **Virtual Environment**: It is recommended to use a virtual environment for your project to manage dependencies and avoid conflicts. For this template was recommended the usage of `venv`.

> [!TIP]  
> The `cmd.sh` script is provided to automate common tasks such as setting up the environment and clearing generated files. You can run the script following the instructions in the _Instructions_ section.

## Prerequisites

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> - Python
> - pip

## Instructions

Usage:

```sh
bash cmd.sh {setup|clear}
```

### `setup`

If you haven't built the project yet, you can do so by running:
```sh
bash cmd.sh setup
```

### `clear`

If you want to remove all generated files and start from scratch, you can run:

```sh
bash cmd.sh clear
```

## License

This project is distributed under [GNU General Public License version 3](https://opensource.org/license/gpl-3-0). You can find the complete text of the license in the project repository.
